# PAF::First Selector

In this tutorial, you are going to develop our first selector. Unfortunately to run it you have to wait until next tutorial.

This selector will draw only a histogram with the contents of a branch named "```T_METPF_ET```" in a ROOT file.

## Creating the selector
As shown in our previous tutorial PAF will look for the code in the places specified in the ```$PAFREPOSITORIES``` shell variable. Chose one of those directories and create there a folder named exactly like your selector. The header and the implementation file names should be base on the one chosen for the selector. In summary:

1. Create a directory in one of the directories set as a PAF repository (variable ```$PAFREPOSITORIES```) called for example "```BasicSelector```".

2. In the folder you have just created edit two files called "```BasicSelector.h```" and "```BasicSelector.C```" to hold the class for our selector (```BasicSelector```).

## Writing the code
#### BasicSelector.h
The selector class needs to inherit from ```PAFChainItemSelector``` where we have implemented most of the functionallity to help building analyis code easier.a

The class ```PAFChainItemSelector``` defines three methods that have to be overloaded:

* ```Initialise```: It is executed once at the slaves and before the loop on the events. It is typically used to initilise variables needed during the analysis.

* ```InsideLoop```: This method will be called for each event and here is where you will place the analysis code.

* ```Summary```: When all events has been evaluated and all the data is in client, this method will be called, so this is the correct place to draw, save or print out special results.

```cpp
#pragma once

#include "PAFChainItemSelector.h"

#include "TH1F.h"

class BasicSelector : public PAFChainItemSelector 
{
	public:
		BasicSelector() : PAFChainItemSelector(), etHisto(0) {}
		virtual ~BasicSelector() {}

		virtual void Initialise();
		virtual void InsideLoop();
		virtual void Summary();

	protected:
		TH1F* etHisto;
		
   ClassDef(BasicSelector,0);
};
```



##### BasicSelector.C

In this example we will create a histogram on intialization (```Initialise()``` method). For that we use the helper method "```CreateH1F(...)```" to simplify the task.

For each event (```InsideLoop()``` method) the example code below fills the histogram previously created with the contents of the ```T_METPF_ET``` branch stored in our input ROOT file as a ```float```. In the following tutorials we will show how to read other types.

At the end of the analysis (```Summary()``` method) we will create a canvas and plot our histogram on it.

```cpp
#include "BasicSelector.h"

#include "TCanvas.h"

ClassImp(BasicSelector);

void BasicSelector::Initialise() 
{
	etHisto = CreateH1F("etHistogram","#slash{E}_{T}", 100, 0., 200.);
}

void BasicSelector::InsideLoop() 
{
	float t_metpf_et = Get<float>("ootpum2");
	etHisto->Fill(t_metpf_et);
}

void BasicSelector::Summary()
{
	TCanvas* canvas = new TCanvas("canvas", "Proof ProofFirst canvas", 200, 10, 400, 400);
	TH1F* result = FindOutput<TH1F*>("etHistogram");
	result->Draw();
	canvas->Update();
}
```

To run this analysis you need to create a ```PAFProject```. How to do that is explained in our next tutorial.
