# PAF::Minimum Configuration
PAF requires [ROOT](http://root.cern.ch) installed on client machine due to is supported over this other framework. Specifically, PAF has been tested with ROOT 5.34 because of some features offered from this version.


#### Environment configuration
First of all, to use or compile PAF, we need to configure [ROOT](http://root.cern.ch) on out machine. It is easy, normally we only needs to execute this command:
```sh
source path_to_ROOT/bin/thisroot.sh
```

### Cloning source code
The first thing that we need is the code. With this command we clone the current status of PAF development:
```sh
git clone https://github.com/PROOF-Analysis-Framework/PROOF-Analysis-Framework
```
Once cloned, we will find our code in ```PROOF-Analysis-Framework``` directory.

#### PAF Compilation 
To compile PAF, we will enter to ```build/``` directory (inside PROOF-Analysis-Framework). There will be a Makefile, so if we want to compile now, we just need to perform a make:
```sh
$ make
```
But PAF requires some others operations like move the source headers, generate some ROOT internal configuration files and so on. 

We only needs to perform:
```sh
$ make install
```
And to use it, we need a last command:
```sh
$ source PAF_setup.sh
```
This source will configure some environment variables and it will tell to ROOT there is a new library (PAF) to load.


## Variables
PAF actually requires some configuration. Thins configuration is realized through environment variables and they are mainly defined in ```PAF_setup.sh```. 

>- #### "PAFPATH"
This variable conains where is PAF configured. PAF needs to know it because there are scripts, template files and another files needed to execution. This folder has directories like /etc, /bin. By default, it is taken from the folder where is ```PAF_setup.sh``` script.

>- #### "PAFREPOSITORIES"
This variable contains the folders that PAF will use as a repositories. It could be a list of directories splitted by colon (":"). The right path is the root of the folder and never a specific package. 
For example, this variable could contains "```/home/javier/selectores:/home/paf/repositorio:/nfs```" to specify 3 repositories. The priority order in this case will make that PAF choose in case of ambiguity (two packages or selectors with the same name) an item in "```/home/javier/selectores```" over "```home/paf/repositorio```" and before "```/nfs```".
