# PAF::Minimal Configuration

## Pre-requisites
PAF requires [ROOT] installed on the client machine since it is completely based on it. In particular, PAF has been tested with ROOT 5.34 because of some new features offered implemented in this release.

To use or compile PAF we need to configure [ROOT] on our machine. This is typically achieved by executing something like:
```sh
source path_to_ROOT/bin/thisroot.sh
```

## Installing PAF

### Downloading (cloning) source code
The first thing that we need is the code. To get the latest version of the code you have to clone the github repository:
```sh
git clone https://github.com/PROOF-Analysis-Framework/PROOF-Analysis-Framework
```
Once done you can find the code in the ```PROOF-Analysis-Framework``` directory.

### PAF Compilation and installation
To compile PAF, please move to  the ```build/``` directory (inside ```PROOF-Analysis-Framework```) and execute:
```sh
$ make
```
Finally, to finish the installation and install header filess, generate some ROOT internal configuration files, ... just do:
```sh
$ make install
```

## Using PAF
### Setting PAF environment
To start using PAF a few shell variables need to be set by issuing the following command:
```sh
$ source PAF_setup.sh
```

### Customization
Some of the PAF default behaviour may be customized by editing ```PAF_setup.sh``` and modifying some of the values assigned there:

>- #### "PAFPATH"
Specifies where PAF is installed. PAF looks there for scripts, templates and other files needed during execution.

>- #### "PAFREPOSITORIES"
Specifies a colon separated list of folders where PAF will look for packages and selectors. As an example this variable could be assigned "```~/selectors:/home/paf/repositorio:/nfs```" to set 3 places to be searched. Packages and selectors are searched for sequentially from left to right, therefore, in the previous example if a given package is found in all the repositories, only the one in "```~/selectors```" will be used.

[ROOT]: http://root.cern.ch
