# PAF::First Selector

In this tutorial, we are going to develop our first selector, but unfortunately, it will not be launched until the next tutorial when we will understand how to configure it.

This selector will draw only an histogram with "T_METPF_ET" variable from a ROOT file.

##Steps
As we could see in the previous tutorial, PAF will find the code in some repositories that are specified in PAFREPOSITORIES path. In one of that directory, we need to create a folder with the name of our selector. Also, we need to create the header and the implementation files with the same name of selector.

So, to this tutorial we need essentially:

1. A directory in one of the directories specifies as a PAF repository (variable PAFREPOSITORIES) called "MyAnalysis".

2. In the folder we have just made, we will create two plain text files called "MyAnalysis.h" to headers and "MyAnalysis.C" to implementation.

##Code
#### MyAnalysis.h
```cpp
#pragma once

#include "PAF/computing/PAFChainItemSelector.h"

#include <TH1F.h>

class MyAnalysis : public PAFChainItemSelector {
	public:
		MyAnalysis() : PAFChainItemSelector(), myHistogram(0) {}
		virtual ~MyAnalysis() {}

	protected:
		virtual void Initialise();
		virtual void InsideLoop();
		virtual void Summary();

	protected:
		TH1F* myHistogram;
		
	ClassDef(MyAnalysis, 1);
};
```
That is the header content. We could see that we are inheriting from PAFChainItemSelector, that is because it contains a lot of funcionalities that make our work easier. Furthermore, we need to inherit from PAFISelector and PAFChainItemSelector inherits from it and makes also some work slightly related to our analysis phase.

PAFChainItemSelector provides us three hooks that we should override if we need to use it. These hooks are the following methods:
>- Initialise: It will be launched once and it is used to initilise variables that we could need during the analysis.
>- InsideLoop: This method will be called in each event and here is where we will place our analysis code.
>- Summary: When all events has been evaluated and all the data are in client, this method will be called, so this is the correct place to draw or save the result.

##### MyAnalysis.C
```cpp
#include "MyAnalysis.h"

#include "TCanvas.h"

ClassImp(MyAnalysis)

void MyAnalysis::Initialise() {
	myHistogram = CreateH1F("myHistogram","#slash{E}_{T}", 100, 0., 200.);
}

void MyAnalysis::InsideLoop() {
	myHistogram->Fill( GetFloat("T_METPF_ET") );
}

void MyAnalysis::Summary() {
    TCanvas* c1 = new TCanvas("c1", "myHistogram canvas",200,10,400,400);
    myHistogram = dynamic_cast<TH1F*>(fOutput->FindObject("myHistogram"));
    if (myHistogram) myHistogram->Draw();
    c1->Update();
}
```

In this selector, we will create a histogram on intialization (Initialise method) with a function that PAF provides (CreateH1F) which makes easier this task.

For each event (InsideLoop method), the code fill the hisogram previously created (in Initialise method) with T_METPF_ET variable value readed as a float (In following tutorials we will learn to read different types).

At analysis end (Summary method), we will create a canvas, which stays selected, and at fH1F->Draw will draw our histogram in that canvas.

As we said previously, we can not run this analysis until we create a PAFProject to configure it, so that is our next tutorial.