# PAF::First launch
At this point we have enough aknowledge to launch an analysis in PAF. We are going to use the selector previously created and a ROOT file which should cointains a "T_METPF_ET" variable.

We recomend the next work flow dut to it does not need to learn each command and we could launch with only one command as many times as we want..

We only need a macro file called for example "RunPAFAnalysis.C", which we will interpret with CINT instead of compile. This file only creates and configure a PAFProject object.

As we know from ROOT, CINT requires a method called as the file name to allow us to launch with a simple ".x RunPAFAnalysis.C". In that method, we will create at first a PAFProject:
```cpp
PAFProject* myProject = new PAFProject();
```
The project will load default configurations but we will see what are exactly in following tutorials (mainly it will configure a default execution environment, execution settings and some other variables).

Now that we have a PAFProject, we have the Run method but, obviously it does not know what is the analyzer and what are the files to analyze. To do this and although the order does not matter, we will configure first what are the ROOT files to analyze:
```cpp
myProject->AddDataFile("/home/javier/Documents/Tree_ZJets_Madgraph_0.root");
```
And then, we specify what are the selector that we want to use over that ROOT file (this example use the previously created selector):
```cpp
myProject->AddSelectorPackage("MyAnalysis");
```
PAF will automatically search the selector in the repositories that PAFPATHREPOSITORIES indicates (Configured on tutorial 2).

And finally, we launch that project:
```cpp
myProject->Run();
```
But this is only the scirpt that ROOT will interpret, to launch, we open a ROOT session and:
```cpp
.x RunPAFAnalysis.C
```
If everything works, it will show us the result at the end. That was our first execution.

RunPAFAnalysis.C all togheter:
```cpp
void RunPAFAnalysis() 
{
	PAFProject* myProject = new PAFProject();
	myProject->AddDataFile("/home/javier/Documents/Tree_ZJets_Madgraph_0.root");
	myProject->AddSelectorPackage("myAnalysis");
	myProject->Run();
}
```

#### Problems
- If PAF library is not loaded as a ROOT library, we need to add as a first line of RunPAFAnalysis method :
```cpp
gSystem->Load("libPAF.so");
```
- In Ubuntu, if we have downloaded ROOT as a compiled, we need to add an #include of TSelector and TCanvas in RunPAFAnalysis.C script to solve link issues.

- That problems makes that our RunPAFAnalysis.C contains:
```cpp
#include "TSelector.h"
#include "TCanvas.h"

void RunPAFAnalysis() {
	gSystem->Load("libPAF.so");
	
	PAFProject* myProject = new PAFProject();
	myProject->AddDataFile("/home/javier/Documents/Tree_ZJets_Madgraph_0.root");
	myProject->AddSelectorPackage("MyAnalysis");
	myProject->Run();
}
```