# PAF::Running a project

At this point we have enough knowledge to launch an analysis in PAF. We are going to use the selector previously created and a ROOT file which should cointain a branch called "```T_METPF_ET```".

We suggest the following workflow since it is simple and can be easily reused with no need to learn additional commands.

The workflow will be coded in a ROOT named macro file called for this example as "```RunPAFAnalysis.C```" which will be interpreted by CINT rather than compiled. In this file a ```PAFProject``` object is created and configured. 

First a ```PAFProject``` has to be created. In this tutorial let's create it with the default values. In further tutorials we will show how it can be customized, for example, changing the execution environment, setting associated to it, etc.
```cpp
PAFProject* myProject = new PAFProject();
```
Even though we could run the project already now, nothing will happen. We have to tell the project which files should be processed. This is done by using the ```AddDataFile(*file_name*)``` method:
```cpp
myProject->AddDataFile("~/Documents/Tree_ZJets_Madgraph_0.root");
```
To tell PAF the analysis code to be used for the processing and which we coded in a selector called ```MyAnalysis``` in the previous tutorial, we use the ```AddSelectorPackage(*selector_name*)``` method:
```cpp
myProject->AddSelectorPackage("MyAnalysis");
```
PAF will automatically search for the selector in the repositories that the environment variable ```$PAFPATHREPOSITORIES``` indicates (see tutorial 2).

Finally to launch the analysis just write:
```cpp
myProject->Run();
```

If we put all this together, the code in ```RunPAFAnalysis.C``` all togheter it should look something like:
```cpp
void RunPAFAnalysis() 
{
	PAFProject* myProject = new PAFProject();
	myProject->AddDataFile("/home/javier/Documents/Tree_ZJets_Madgraph_0.root");
	myProject->AddSelectorPackage("myAnalysis");
	myProject->Run();
}
```

To run this macro just start a ROOT session and execute it:
```cpp
.x RunPAFAnalysis.C
```

At the end it will show the result of the analysis.


#### Potential Problems
- If the PAF library is not loaded automatically by ROOT you need to add the following line at the beginning of ```RunPAFAnalysis()```:
```cpp
gSystem->Load("libPAF.so");
```
- In Ubuntu, if ROOT was downloaded already compiled, you need to splicetely include (```#include```) both ```TSelector.h``` and ```TCanvas.h``` in ```RunPAFAnalysis.C``` to solve issues at link time.
```cpp
#include "TSelector.h"
#include "TCanvas.h"

void RunPAFAnalysis() {
	gSystem->Load("libPAF.so");
	
	PAFProject* myProject = new PAFProject();
	myProject->AddDataFile("~/Documents/Tree_ZJets_Madgraph_0.root");
	myProject->AddSelectorPackage("MyAnalysis");
	myProject->Run();
}
```
