# PAF::PAF selector functions
Up to now we have made a quick review of the most important PAF functionalities. In this tutorial we will explain additional functions that the PAF chain selector provides.

## Getting tree variables
We already showed how to get the value of a variable (branch) from a tree. We will here illustrate a bit further all its potential.

For those not familiarized with templated functions we have crated 3 predefined methods for the main primitive types (```int```, ```float``` and ```double```) called ```GetFloat(branchname)```, ```GetInt(branchname)``` and ```GetDouble(branchname)```.

All these methods need at least one argument corresponding to the name of the branch (variable) whose value is to be found. For example:
```cpp
float myfloat = GetFloat("T_METPF_ET");
```

If the branch holds a vector or array of values of a given type you may provide a second argument with the index of the value you want to retrieve. For example to get the second value of the vector stored in the branch "```T_Elec_Px```" use:
```cpp
float myfloat = GetFloat("T_Elec_Px", 1);
```

We also provide a much more powerful templated method ```Get&lt;T&gt(branchname)``` which may be used for any type of variable. The previous examples can be written then the following way:
```cpp
float myfloat1 = Get<float>("T_METPF_ET");
float myfloat2 = Get<float>("T_Elec_Px", 1);
```

## Assigning branch values to a variable
PAF provides another way to work with variables from a tree. This method may be usefull if a variable has already been created with the right type since with this technique PAF infers the right type of assigment to use from your variable at compilation time. The ```Assign(branchname, variable)``` method should be used for this to happen:
```cpp
float result;
Assign("T_METPF_ET", result);
```
And, if you need to get an item from an array, you may use the following overloaded function:
```cpp
float result;
Assign("T_Elec_Px", result, 1);
```

## Working with parameters
To retrive the value of parameters from previous selectors or parameters specified in the PAF project there are similar methods as the ones shown in the sections above. The name of the methods include the sequence "```Param```" after the "```Get```". Therefore we provide a templated "```GetParam&lt;T&gt;(...)```" and the more specific "```GetParamFloat(...)```", "```GetParamInt(...)```" and "```GetParamDobule(...)```". Finally a method called "```AssignParam(...)```" provides a similar functionallity. We do not include a version for vectors or arrays.

To set a parameter it is enough to use the "```SetParam(name, value)```" method. For example, to set a parameter named "Test" with the value stored in a variable called test so we can recover its value in another place later you may do:
```cpp
// Inside some selector or in the PAFProject
float test = 123.456;
SetParam("Prueba", test);

(...)

// Inside some other selector we can retrive the value of test and
// store it in result
float result = GetParam<float>("Test");

// The following line will also work
// float result = GetParamFloat("Test");

// Or even the following 2 lines
// float result;
// AssignParam("Test", result);
```

## Dealing with branchs and leafs
In some particular cases you may be interested in finding out if a given branch exists in the tree been used. For example if you need to have specific code to study MC samples that makes no sense when dealing with real data. The "```Exists(branchname)```" is very usefull for this situations:
```cpp
// Returns true if T_METPF_ET is present in the tree
bool result = Exists("T_METPF_ET");
```

In the rare case in which you may need to access a ```TBranch``` or a ```TLeaf``` directly PAF includes appropiate functions for that task: "```GetBranch(branchname)```" and "```GetLeaf(leafname)```":
```cpp
TLeaf* myleaf = GetLeaf("T_METPF_ET");
TBranch* mybranch = GetBranch("T_METPF_ET");
```

## Helper functions
There are many other methods included in PAF selector base classes that are usefull when creating output objects, i.e. objects that you want to be merged and saved at the end of the processing. The main objects supported are histograms, profiles and trees. The syntax would be something like:
```cpp
TTree* result = CreateTree("name", "title");
TH1F* result = CreateH1F("name", "title", nbinsx, xlow, xup);
(...)
TH1D* result = CreateH1F("name", "title", nbinsx, xlow, xup);
(...)
TH2F* result = CreateH2F("name", "title", nbinsx, xbins, nbinsy, ybins);
(...)
TProfile* result = CreateProfile("name", "title", nbinsx, xlow, xup, ylow, yup);
```

Eventually, it may be usefull to retrieve the value of a previously created histogram, profile, tree... which are stored inside the selector. The same holds for objects sent to the selector as input objects. This is done with the following two methods:
```cpp
TObject* result = FindOutput("object_name");
TObject* result = FindInput("object_name");

```
For further information on this methods, please check the [PAF] documentation for the code.

[PAF]: http://www.hep.uniovi.es/PAF/
