# PAF::PAF selector functions
Up to now we have made a quick review of the most important PAF functionalities. In this tutorial we will explain additional functions that the PAF chain selector provides.

## Getting tree variables
We already showed how to get the value of a variable (branch) from a tree. We will here illustrate a bit further all its potential.

For those not familiarized with templated functions we have crated 3 predefined methods for the main primitive types (```int```, ```float``` and ```double```) called ```GetFloat(branchname)```, ```GetInt(branchname)``` and ```GetDouble(branchname)```.

All these methods need at least one argument corresponding to the name of the branch (variable) whose value is to be found. For example:
```cpp
float myfloat = GetFloat("T_METPF_ET");
```

If the branch holds a vector or array of values of a given type you may provide a second argument with the index of the value you want to retrieve. For example to get the second value of the vector stored in the branch "```T_Elec_Px```" use:
```cpp
float myfloat = GetFloat("T_Elec_Px", 1);
```

We also provide a much more powerful templated method ```Get&lt;T&gt(branchname)``` which may be used for any type of variable. The previous examples can be written then the following way:
```cpp
float myfloat1 = Get<float>("T_METPF_ET");
float myfloat2 = Get<float>("T_Elec_Px", 1);
```

## Tree variables assignation
PAF offers another way to work with variables from tree. In this case, we tell to PAF where we want the value of a key. The main advantage of this feature consist in we do not need to specify the type of that variable, C++ will infer during compiling time.
```cpp
float result;
Assign("T_METPF_ET", result);
```
And, if we need to get an item from an array variable, we have the next overloaded function:
```cpp
float result;
Assign("T_Elec_Px", result, 1);
```

## Working with parameters
When we want to read parameters from previous selector or project specified, we have a similar methods to a tree variable. The function name will be in this case GetParam&lt;T&gt; or primitive type predefined GetParamFloat, GetParamInt and GetParamDobule, but due to we do not contemplate the use of array, we do not have something like GetParam&lt;T&gt;("Prueba", 0) yet.

But the parameters needs other function cause we need to set a parameter if we want to use it in other selectors. So, we have a SetParam that needs a key and the value. 

In this example, we will set "Test" key with the value of test variable and then we recover the value.
```cpp
float test;
SetParam("Prueba", test);
(...)
float result = GetParam<float>("Test");
```
And there are other ways to get the value of "test":
```cpp
float result = GetParamFloat("Test");
```
Or with an AssingParam:
```cpp
float result;
AssignParam("Test", result);
```

## Branchs and Leafs functions
An intereset function is a query to know if the current event has a specific variable. We have a function that need the variable name and return a boolean. For example:
```cpp
bool result = Exists("T_METPF_ET")
```
Of course, PAF also provides tools to work in a lower level if the user wants it. That is the direct access to Branchs and Leafs of the current Tree. There are two functions, GetBranch and GetLeaf that from the key, they will return a pointer to that object.
Example for a Leaf:
```cpp
TLeaf* result = GetLeaf("T_METPF_ET");
```
Example for a Branch:
```cpp
TBranch* result = GetBranch("T_METPF_ET");
```

## Helper functions
PAF also has some functions to help in common tasks like histograms or trees creation, or object searches. Here are some examples but not all, if you want to know all of that functions, please, go to classes documentation in PAF [PAF] due to these kind of functions are a bit volatile:
```cpp
TObject* result = FindInput("foo");
TObject* result = FindOutput("foo");
TTree* result = CreateTree("name", "title");
TH1F* result = CreateH1F("name", "title", nbinsx, xlow, xup);
(...)
TH1D* result = CreateH1F("name", "title", nbinsx, xlow, xup);
(...)
TH2F* result = CreateH2F("name", "title", nbinsx, xbins, nbinsy, ybins);
(...)
TProfile* result = CreateProfile("name", "title", nbinsx, xlow, xup, ylow, yup);
```

[PAF]: http://www.hep.uniovi.es/PAF/
