# PAF::Project configuration
In previous tutorials we have already configured a ```PAFProject``` in the case of a simple first execution as well
as passing additional parameters to it. We will now show the additional functionalities available, although most of the
methods are overloaded, so we recomend you to read the documentation for the classes.

## Execution environment
Up to now we have used the default execution environment provided by PAF. This environment corresponds to *PROOF Lite*
which builds a PROOF cluster in the local machine and it is very simple to configure. PAF offers more environments like:
+ *Sequential* environment (```PAFSequentialEnvironment```): No parallelization. A single thread is used. Very useful
for debugging
+ *PROOF Lite* environment (```PAFPROOFLiteEnvironment```): Based on the [PROOF Lite] tools in [ROOT] it creates threads on the local machine
using the available cores. The constructor takes the number of slaves as a parameter.
+ *PoD* environment (```PAFPoDEnvironment```): It integrates [PoD], PROOF on Demand, with PAF. 
+ *PROOF Cluster* environment (```PAFPROOFClusterEnvironment```): It integrates PROOF Cluster, a tool developed by IFCA to build a dynamic PROOF Cluster.
+ *PROOF Cloud* environment (```PAFPROOFCloudEnvironment```): It is able to build a dynamic PROOF cluster on a cloud infrastructure.

The execution environment is a ```PAFProject``` member, therefore it is enough to specify it through the appropiate set method:
```cpp
PAFProject* myProject = new PAFProject();
PAFSequentialEnvironment* executionEnvironment = new PAFSequentialEnvironment();
myProject->SetExecutionEnvironment(executionEnvironment);
```

It may it also be specified in the ```PAFProject``` constructor like in the following example:
```cpp
PAFProject* myProject = new PAFProject( new PAFSequentialEnvironment() );
```


## Libraries, packages and selectors
PAF considers the usage of several types of executable code. If we want to add a library to the project because it is needed at execution time we can use the ```AddLibrary(...)``` method:
```cpp
myProject->AddLibrary("~/Documents/Foo.so");
```
We need to take a similar action for a *package*. The difference between a package and a library is that the first one is provided as source code that needs to be compiled. Please note that a package is not an selector (analyzer) and it will usually contain additional tools. We only need to specify the name of the package and PAF will look for it in the configured repositories (see tutorial 2 for details on how to do that):

```cpp
myProject->AddPackage("FFT");
```

A selector is an special package tat will be executed by PAF so we require it to have at least a class with the name of the package inheriting from ```PAFChainItemSelector```. Again, it is enough to specify the name of the selector since PAF will look for it in the configured repositories:
```cpp
myProject->AddSelectorPackage("MyAnalysis");
```

Additional methods provide a way to pass a vector of libraries, packages or selectors in one go:
```cpp
vector<TString> myLibrariesVector;
myLibrariesVector.push_back("~/Documents/Foo1.so");
myLibrariesVector.push_back("~/Documents/Foo2.so");
myProject->SetLibraries(myLibrariesVector);
(...)
myProject->SetPackages(mySelectorPackagesVector);
myProject->SetSelectorPackages(mySelectorPackagesVector);
```
## Input files
Input files are those to be processed by the project. In previous examples we have always past them through a string:
```cpp
myProject->AddDataFile("/home/javier/Documents/ROOT_FILE.root");
```
We may, however, use a ```TFileInfo``` which might be more interesting for more complex file systems. For several files the method ```SetDataFiles(TFileCollection*)``` might be an alternative and more convenient option.

## Output file
To store the results of the execution on a given ROOT file you have to tell PAF the file name
```cpp
myProject->SetOutputFile("/home/javier/Documents/Result.root");
```
In this case, all the histograms and information generated at the selectos will be saved in that file.

## Input parameters
As shown in previous tutorials to have input parameters transmited to the selectors it is enough to do something like:
```cpp
myProject->SetInputParam("Weight", 1.234567);
```

## Dynamic histograms or feedback
PROOF provides the ability to show some histograms as they are filled during the data processing. To use this functionallity we have to add the name of the histogram to the project like in the following example:
```cpp
myProject->AddDynamicHistogram("myHistogram");
```
A more complex mode to set it is by using a vector of ```TString```.
```cpp
std::vector<TString>* dynamicHistograms = new std::vector<TString>();
(...)
myProject->AddDynamicHistograms(dynamicHistograms);
```

## Compilation place
By default PAF assumes a homogeneous architecture cluster so it compiles everything on the user interface once and then sends the code to the slaves. In case this poses problems (for example in heterogeneous infrastructures) you can use the ```SetCompleOnSlaves(bool)``` method.
```cpp
//To force compilation in the slaves
myProject->SetCompileOnSlaves(true);
```

It may it also be specified in the ```PAFProject``` constructor like in the following example:
```cpp
PAFProject* myProject = new PAFProject( new PAFSequentialEnvironment() );
```

## Event range to process
PAF also allows to specify the first event and the number events to be processed:
With SetFirstEvent from which to start. By default, 0.
```cpp
myProject->SetFirstEvent(10);
```
SetNEvents restricts the execution to process only the number of events indicated:
```cpp
myProject->SetNEvents(200);
```
## Tree name by default
Although PAF manages by default the trees in ROOT files (It takes "tree" tree, but if not exists, PAF looks if there is only one tree to choose, if not, it shows you a warning message), you can set another tree name by default. To achieve this:
```cpp
myProject->SetDefaultTreeName("latino");
```

[ROOT]: http://root.cern.ch
[PROOF Lite]: https://root.cern.ch/drupal/content/proof-multicore-desktop-laptop-proof-lite
[PoD]: http://pod.gsi.de/
