# PAF::Project configuration
In previous tutorials we have already configured a ```PAFProject``` in the case of a simple first execution as well
as passing additional parameters to it. We will now show the additional functionalities available, although most of the
methods are overloaded, so we recomend you to read the documentation for the classes.

## Execution environment
Up to now we have used the default execution environment provided by PAF. This environment corresponds to *PROOF Lite*
which builds a PROOF cluster in the local machine and it is very simple to configure. PAF offers more environments like:
+ *Sequential* environment (```PAFSequentialEnvironment```): No parallelization. A single thread is used. Very useful
for debugging
+ *PROOF Lite* environment (```PAFPROOFLiteEnvironment```): Based on the [PROOF Lite] tools in [ROOT] it creates threads on the local machine
using the available cores. The constructor takes the number of slaves as a parameter.
+ *PoD* environment (```PAFPoDEnvironment```): It integrates [PoD], PROOF on Demand, with PAF. 
+ *PROOF Cluster* environment (```PAFPROOFClusterEnvironment```): It integrates PROOF Cluster, a tool developed by IFCA to build a dynamic PROOF Cluster.
+ *PROOF Cloud* environment (```PAFPROOFCloudEnvironment```): It is able to build a dynamic PROOF cluster on a cloud infrastructure.

The execution environment is a ```PAFProject``` member, therefore it is enough to specify it through the appropiate set method:
```cpp
PAFProject* myProject = new PAFProject();
PAFSequentialEnvironment* executionEnvironment = new PAFSequentialEnvironment();
myProject->SetExecutionEnvironment(executionEnvironment);
```
It may it also be specified in the ```PAFProject``` constructor like in the following example:
```cpp
PAFProject* myProject = new PAFProject( new PAFSequentialEnvironment() );
```


[ROOT]: http://root.cern.ch
[PROOF Lite]: https://root.cern.ch/drupal/content/proof-multicore-desktop-laptop-proof-lite
[PoD]: http://pod.gsi.de/
